High in this video we're going to look at something called a non local scope.
Now we've already seen local scopes and global scopes as well as the built in scope but a local scope
and a non-locals scope all related but they're a little bit different.
And this is when we start defining functions within another function and we can certainly do that.
Let's take a look at an example we may define an outer function and our module that has some code and
then at some point it defines another function.
You can definitely do that you can define a function inside another function and then maybe you execute
that function within the outer function.
So this is an example of a nested function or an in a function.
So when we call out of phunk what happens let's take a look at the scopes in the namespace is that we
have.
Well obviously we're sitting in the module.
So we have a global scope then we have the out of phunk well out of phunk has its scope right it has
a local scope we've seen that before.
However we're now defining in a funk as well from your inside out of funk.
So now there is another scope that's nested inside the local scope of our funk.
They both local scopes two functions out of funkin in a funk respectively but they are local scopes
nested within each other nested within the global scope.
And so Python will start looking for variable names from the you know from wherever you are and moving
its way outwards.
But there's a difference between local scopes and the global scope.
This kind of a boundary between them where and we'll see some examples of that.
But if you have a variable defined in here that doesn't exist in here Python will look in the other
scope for it right.
And in some cases it will continue over to the global scope.
In other cases that we'll see later it doesn't it will stop at that boundary and we'll come back to
so both the functions have access to the global and the built in scope.
Right.
So in a funk has access to the global scope and the built in scope.
And it also has access to its local scope out of funk.
Same thing it can access its local scope the global scope and the built in scope just as before.
But the inner function now also has access to the enclosing scope which is the scope.
In this case of out of phunk so that scope is neither local.
It's not local to in a funk it's not global either.
It is called a non local scope and these non-local scopes nested within each other.
So let's see how things work with non-locals nested scopes.
So let's take a look at this example that we've seen before just to remind you.
Let's say we have a module we have a global variable equals 10.
And we have this outer function that just prints out and we call the outer function when we call out
a funk.
Python sees the reference to a A doesn't exist in the local scope so it looks upwards.
And in this case we're sitting inside the global scope.
So it's going to find the global variable a module variable.
And so that's the one it's going to use not consider this example where we have this out a function
that defines a variable equals 10.
Now that's variable is going to be local 2 out of phunk Then we define in a funk inside and we say print
a.
Then we're going to call in a funk and then we're going to call out a funk for what happens when we
call out of funk.
Well in a funk is created and then called Where does this come from.
Well A is not in the local scope of in a funk because it was referenced but not assigned to them.
So it is not local to in a funk.
So Python says OK I've got to go look for it and it's going to start looking in the inclosing scopes.
In this case it's first going to look at out of Funk's scope.
Right.
So it looks for it in the there and finds it.
So it's going to use that one.
It's going to say OK I got it.
If it didn't find it there it would go and look in the global scope.
Let's take a look at another example.
Let's say that we have eight 10 which is global.
Right.
And then we have the same thing as before except now.
A was as at the global level and we haven't actually assigned it a value out of funk.
So a by the time we reached in a funk is not local too in a funk.
It's not local out of funk either.
Right.
And so it has to go look for it in the inclosing scope which in this case is going to be the global
space.
Right.
So this year references the global variable before we started the out of funk because Python reached
it first.
So it's whichever one it reaches.
First now let's see how we can modify global variables.
Well we've seen that before we use the global keyword.
Right.
So again this is an example we've seen before we have A-stan global variable and inside out of phunk
we say is global.
And then when we modify it we're actually going to modify the global variable.
So after we called out of phunk one when we print a while it's now a thousand the global variable has
been changed.
2002 seen that before but we can do the same thing from within a nested function as well.
It doesn't matter where you are in the code.
So let's say we have out of phunk to now.
And it defines a function within it called in a funk and in a funk defines a to be global and then modifies
a and then out of func to then after is defined in a funk calls it which means that this piece of code
equals hello is going to get executed.
So when we call out of phunk to what happens.
Well it's going to go ahead and call in a funk in a funk is going to define a to be hello.
But the global A.
Right.
So it's going to point the global variable A to this new object called Hello.
So after our Funchess finished running when we print out it will print hello.
It's modified the global variable so it's OK to use a global keyword in inner functions as well.
Python is going to go straight to the global namespace and point our variable to that one.
OK so what about modifying non local variable.
So in other words variables that are not global but that are not local either.
Like we saw with those nested functions.
So let's say we do the following code first.
So we have our auto function and x is equal to Hello.
What does that mean.
Well that means that X is a local variable to out of phunk OK.
And then in a funk well in a funk X equals Python.
Python sees this and says it's an assignment.
It's a local variable.
So X is now local took in a funk this X here masques the X in of funk and then we call in a funk and
then we're going to print x.
So now when we call out of funk it's going to print hello.
Why.
Well remember when we call out of funk X is set to be hello.
We define in a funk and call it it sets X to Python.
But that has nothing to do with the exit out of funk.
So when in a funk has finished running X is still the same one as before and hence we get.
Hello.
OK.
So this just explains what I just said.
And so we say that this X here masks the X and it's enclosing scope
now we can hire a modify non-local variables and we just have to explicitly tell python about it just
like we did with the global keyword.
There is a key word we can use to tell Python hey this variable here is a non-local variable and it
will look in the non-local nested scopes.
It will not however look in the global scope.
Right.
So we do that using the non-local keyword.
Let's see an example let's do a def out of phunk again.
X equals Hello.
Now we define this in a function and we declare x to be non-local and then we assign it a value.
Well this X here is now the X and out of func because we said it's non-local and this is the first one
that it finds moving upwards in the chain.
So when we call in a funk it actually modifies the value of x to Python in out of func right in that
scope.
So when we print it we're going to get Python right.
So let's take a look at this.
So whenever Python is told that a variable is non-local and this is really critical it will look for
it in the enclosing local scope chain until it first encounters the specified variable name.
But it will only look in the local scopes.
If you have a variable that is only in the global scope and then you somewhere in a function say non-local
that variable name you will get an error because Python will say hey I couldn't find that name in a
non-local scope.
Yeah it existed in the global.
But if that's the one you meant use the global keyword.
Otherwise it will restrict itself to just using nested local schools.
So let's look at an example of how this works.
So again we just have the same thing as before Def outward X equals Hello def in a.
Now we have another nested function def in a two right which is defined inside of once.
And now we have three levels of nesting and here we declare x to be non-local and then we set X equal
to Python.
So what what X does this refer to this non-local X while it's going to refer to the one in order and
doesn't have a local x.
So it says well it's not in there.
Let's look one level up and it finds it in ours.
So when we eventually print X from outer It has been modified by the call to in a to which was itself
called by the call in a one.
So let's look at this with a picture instead.
So we have our global scope and inside our global scope we have this scope for the outer function right.
That's a local scope and then we have a scope for a one because in a one was defined so it has a scope
and it's going to be inside the outer it's going to be nested inside the outer scope.
And then within that we have in a two in a two as defined inside in a once so we got a local scope in
a two that's nested within a 1.
When we run out here we have X equal to Hello.
So now we have these There's a local variable x that has a value of hello that's in the local scope
of our then we call in a 1.
Well what happens when we call in a 1 Oh and by the way one is also a label that exists in the scope
of our right.
Because this function in a one is just a name that points to a function object.
So that name is in that scope and I'm not going to keep repeating that I'm just going to you know focus
on the x variable.
So when we look at in a one there's only one thing in the scope of one really it's the two function
label right that's in there.
And then when we have in to what do we have.
Well we have X right.
We have Ezekial to Python was sitting Ezekial to Python.
However we said that X is non-local.
So that X is really pointing to the X the first X that it finds in the nested local scopes which happens
to be the one in hours.
So when we said X equal to Python what are we doing with changing the X in the outer scope.
And so when we print x here in an auto function right we're printing X which happens to be the X in
the outer scope then it's going to print out Python because we modify it from within a two
but consider this example Now let's look at this one where we have def outer equals as defined as follows
so x equals Hello local right.
X is local to ours.
Then within an hour we have a 1 x equals Python.
That's an assignment.
It is local to a 1 x which masks the x from the outer scope.
Then we have def in a two with non-local X and we change x to Montie.
What does this x refer to.
This non-local X while the first enclosing scope X label that we find which happens to be the one in
a 1 right.
So now when we set X equal to Montie we're actually changing the X from in a one not the X from outer
right because X here is local 2 in a 1 and we'll see a diagram of that.
So let's see what it looks like.
So we have our global scope.
We have our local scope for the outer function and there's an excellent right.
There's also in a one I'm going to keep repeating that but X is the one we're interested in.
So X is there has a value of hello.
Then we have a scope for in a one and in a one has it's own x because we have this assignment.
So X exists here as well on its own and it's Python.
Then we have in a two in a two is defined nested within a one so its scope is going to be nested within
the scope of a one.
And now however we have an X but we said it was non-local.
So that X points to the very first label that it finds in the inclosing scopes.
In this case it finds it in the scope of a 1.
So the Xon in two points to the exent in a one.
But you'll notice that the Xon in a one doesn't point to the X and out of the different variables they
are in different scopes.
So at the end of the day when we are going to print well we're going to call our what is it going to
do.
Well it's going to call in a one when it calls in a one.
It's going to set x to Python.
It's going to define this function then it's going to print x before calling in to or before calling
in a two X's equal to Python.
So it's going to print Python out at this point.
Then we call in there too.
Now two changes the value of x to Montie which x is it it's the one in a 1.
So now after a two is finished running when we print the value of X it's been modified.
It's not equal to Montie.
So we print Montie out.
Now no one has finished running.
And we print x from the Alt-A function.
Right.
And now we're in this X over here that's in the outer local scope that was never modified.
So it printed Hello All right.
Let's take a look now at this example.
So we have again this function outage and equals help local variable to our.
Now we have an a function with an hour and we declare x to be non-local.
So let's see what's happening.
So we have our global namespace our global scope.
Then we have the scope for outer and outer has this variable called X that's currently set to help next
when we're going to call in a one we're going to have a scope for in a one.
What's going to be in that scope.
Well there's an X in there but X was declared non-local.
So yes there's an X here but it's actually pointing to the one in the outer function because we said
it was non-local.
Now we also define in a two now in a to also has a non-local x.
So the scope for it has to exist and it has an accident but that X says are you going to look for the
first close in one.
And so it's going to look and find this axen in a one which is itself actually the X an honor.
Right so you can think of it as a chain.
Or you can think of it that it goes directly there that X doesn't exist in that scope because technically
it doesn't.
Right.
So really the one is going to find is the one up here but it may be easier for you to think of it as
a chain.
Right.
Even though it technically isn't the chain so now when we call our what happens.
Well the first thing when we call out is that it sets X to equal to helo defines in a want and it calls
in a 1.
OK.
So let's call in a 1.
So when we call in a 1 we set X equal to Python but which x is it.
It's the one hour.
So technically this X over here is just change its value right to Python then we define this in a two
Vout function which has a non-local X and X sets X equal to Montie.
But we haven't called it yet.
So first we print the value of x before we've called in two.
Right.
And what what are we going to get when we do that.
Well it's going to be equal to Python.
Right.
That's just what we said.
Now we call in a two.
So I had that point we modify the value of x which X. Well this X in a one but it's non-local so it's
technically the exent.
Right.
So it's going to modify this X over here which is modifying this X over there.
So we've changed it to Montie.
So now the value of X is indeed Montee.
After we've finished running in two then we're done with running in a one and move on to the next line
of code print.
So now we have to print out a comic X which x is printing it's printing the X of the outer scope.
Right we're in the scope of our.
And what's the value of x at that point while it's Montie because we just changed it from within in
a one word from within in a to.
Right.
So it was nested two levels deep.
But remember all these variables are pointing back to the outer scope x.
So we are also going to get Montie when we print x out at that level.
So hopefully you start and get a feel for how these things change together.
So let's look at another example that now involves both non-local and global variables and let's see
how things kind of mix with each other.
So let's say we have a variable x or 100 which is a global variable.
In other words he has a global namespace and we have a variable called X in it.
Then we have this out of function.
Now the outer function therefore is going to have its scope and we have this Texaco's Python in there.
What does that mean.
That means it's a local variable.
It's not the global variable we have an assignment within say global x.
So X is local to the outer function.
Now we have this defined in a function in a one and in a one.
Therefore he's going to have its scope but it has this non-local X so it has this variable x that's
actually pointing to the outer function because that's the first one that it finds in the inclosing.
Local scopes but inside of one we define another function called in two.
So again we have this nested situation where in a tu's local SP namespace and scope is inside the scope
of a one.
And it has an X as well.
But you'll notice that I have the keyword here global.
So it has an X but that X means the Global X so that x is actually pointing to the one in the global
namespace.
So when we modify X over here set it equal to Hello.
We're actually modifying the X in the global namespace when we have modified the X and in a one we're
actually modifying the X in order right.
So you can keep your arrows straight right if another curved.
All right.
And then we call in a one and then we print the value out.
So let's see what happens when we call our.
So now let's execute all that stuff.
Well the first thing it's going to do it's going to set to Python and then it's going to define this
function and not call the function in a 1.
While the function in a one changes the value of x in order to Montie because it's non-local and then
it defines the function but doesn't call it yet.
And now we print x.
Well what is X right now.
Well we just set it to Montie right.
So that's what it is then we call in a two and we have the Global X and we change X equal to hello but
we change the X to hello that's in the global namespace.
So now when we print x APTA in a to has finished running we're still left with Montie that hasn't changed.
Now no one finishes running.
And what happens when we print the X in the outer namespace.
Well remember the X in the outer namespace is this one here.
Right.
And we modified it to Mounty in a one.
And so we also see Montie coming back over the print statement.
Finally after finishes running and now we print X which X are we printing now we're outside with finished
running outward.
We're no longer inside.
So which X does this mean.
Well that means the one in the module the one in the global namespace and its value was changed by in
a two to Hello.
So when we print that out we get.
Hello OK.
So easiest thing is just to think of you know the kind of change that you have and what's referencing
what the other thing that's sometimes you may want to do is not to use the same variable names.
OK that's one way of avoiding some of these problems but sometimes you actually do want to have a function
refer to the non-local scopes are variables and we'll see the reasons for doing that.
So now let's switch to some code and let's see how all this works in action.
Thanks for watching.
I'll see you in a bit.